[KEP-6080] (alpha) Add docs for DRA Derived Attributes for k8s 1.37 (#56212)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/resource-management/dynamic-resource-allocation/dra-api.md

List type attributes is controlled by the
[`DRAListTypeAttributes` feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#DRAListTypeAttributes)
in the `kube-apiserver` and `kube-scheduler`.

## Derived attributes {#derived-attributes}

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="DRADerivedAttributes" >}}

The `matchAttribute` and `distinctAttribute` constraints normally require
devices to publish attributes under the exact same name. If a GPU driver
publishes `pcie_locality` and a NIC driver publishes `pcie_root` (or embeds
the same information in a string like `numa0-pcie1`), the scheduler has no

> way to recognize that these represent the same thing, so the two drivers

Reviewer: Is this slightly more accurate?

```suggestion
way to recognize that these represent the same thing, so devices from the two drivers
```

Author: Certainly.

Updated, thanks.

physical device attribute.

```yaml
apiVersion: resource.k8s.io/v1
kind: ResourceClaim
metadata:
  name: gpu-nic-numa-alignment
spec:
  devices:
    requests:
    - name: gpu
      exactly:
        deviceClassName: gpu.example.com
        count: 1
        derivedAttributes:
        - name: derived/numa
          expression: device.attributes["gpu.example.com"].numa
    - name: nic
      exactly:
        deviceClassName: nic.example.com
        count: 1
        derivedAttributes:
        - name: derived/numa
          expression: device.attributes["nic.example.com"].numaNode
    constraints:
    - requests: ["gpu", "nic"]
      matchAttribute: derived/numa
```

In this example, the `gpu` and `nic` drivers publish topology information
under different attribute names (`numa` and `numaNode`). Each request
computes a common `derived/numa` value from its own device's attributes,
and the `matchAttribute` constraint aligns the two requests on that virtual
attribute, even though the underlying drivers never agreed on a shared
attribute name.

A few things to know about `derivedAttributes`:

- **Naming**: `name` must be a DNS subdomain followed by a `/` and a C

>   identifier, the same format used for physical attribute names (for

Reviewer: "Physical" doesn't feel like quite the right qualifier here. Is this better?

```suggestion
  identifier, the same format used for driver-provided attribute names (for
```

I thought about "standard" but wouldn't want that to be confused with "standardized" (`resource.kubernetes.io/*`) attributes.

Author: That's definitely better. Thanks for giving this some thought. I changed in rest of the places too!
